so uh so thanks for coming to this
session um and uh I thought what we
would do is talk a little bit about
uh the impact of AI on creativity and
digital
experiences um at Adobe we've been
actually playing with AI and our tools
for almost a decade but certainly over
the last couple of years it's become
very clear that uh there's
something U at a great in a great
magnitude of change that's happening
right now in the entire creative
industry and also in how marketing is
going to be done how marketing is going
to be done by the biggest brands in the
world and how you know and also small
and emerging businesses of all sizes
will also have to rethink you know how
they create content create variations of
content personalize that content and
deliver it at scale and it's been fun to
uh to be in the in you know in a company
like Adobe thinking through the impact
of um of this technology and how it's
really going to probably change
everything uh to some extent it's one of
those moments one of those seismic
moments or Cambrian explosions if you
will uh that I'm sure a lot of you are
feeling and and encountering as well so
what I thought I would do is uh talk a
little bit about some of the big kind of
waves of change that uh that we're
seeing that may or may not be relevant
to you but hopefully are at least
interesting and then I would love to
hear any thoughts or questions on this
or anything else that I can be helpful
with um as you build your
businesses so no doubt this new age of
creativity is uh is going to have these
seismic changes um or seismic levels of
impact especially in the area of what
people do for a living how people learn
and the competitive dynamics of Brands
and entertainment we're living in a
world where every brand is only as
relevant as its latest content and also
you have to increasingly tell a story a
very relevant story at the speed of
social right which is always moving and
every day is a different sort of uh
pulse that you have to tune into and the
traditional machine and tools are just
not made for this world U and so this is
one of the one of the sort of
underpinnings of a lot of this change
but let me now use this time to just go
through five waves of change that I'm
really excited about uh again and then
we'll have some time uh for whatever is
on your minds the first wave of change
uh is that you know is this notion that
the that creativity is the new
productivity and if you think about it
productivity tools have been deployed
through organizations large and small
for the past few decades and we have
increasingly been Pro we've over time
been promoted and given opportunity and
been successful based on how productive
we were how much we got done with finite
resources and I think that this is one
of those moments where there's an
inflection point and people are going to
start sending out more for their ideas
and their creativity than how quickly
they're getting things done because so
much productivity is being offloaded to
compute and uh and this is kind of
increasingly how we're standing out and
I think about that term workflow which a
lot of us use in our business
and uh there's a famous book um on
creativity by this guy Mahal chick Mahal
sort of like the most famous book on
creativity he talks about the state of
flow where creatives seek to get into
this Zone where everything that's in
their Mind's Eye is sort of flowing
without a lot of friction in process and
how do you achieve that and you look at
the the world of of of machines that
things have to go through to get done
and then you look at the impact of
something like generative Ai and you're
realizing that the work part of workflow
is being reduced you know and in some
cases even eliminated and what does that
actually mean um for people's careers
and for students Etc talking about
education or or or or or or start
starting with the Enterprise rather I
believe that just like productivity
tools like Excel and Word and PowerPoint
have been deployed and obviously I'm
biased because I'm coming from a company
that makes creative tools but I think
that the creative tools now need to be
increasingly deployed as well why
because back to that moment that point
about story at the speed of of social
who are the people who are making these
brand moments and having these
communications and all this kind of
stuff it's increasingly the social media
marketers it's the it's the product
marketers it's the you know the product
Le growth folks who have an insight and
want to test it and share it in real
time modern Brands need to be able to
think and act in real time and they need
creative tools deployed in order to do
so education which is also a deep
passion for for our teams it's just kind
of a tragedy that art class has always
been confined to like one or two period
a week um and everything that is
supposed to creatively develop a child
is sort of squeezed into these one or
two blocks when in fact if we know that
people will increasingly stand out
through their creativity and ideas this
should be permeated through the entire
curriculum I mean why should we even
write history papers anymore especially
in the world of chat GPT why shouldn't
we be making narrative videos of a
historical moment you know that we're
covering as a fifth grader for example
and learn the tools the story telling I
think that that's something we're also
going to see as creativity becomes the
new productivity and so the big shift
here that I just want to you know put a
Capstone on Wave number one is that the
standout the success the promotion is
increasingly going from this this
Advantage this competitive advantage on
the productivity side to one that's more
around creativity and we'll get to more
of this in a moment wave number two wave
number two is anchored with another kind
of strange tragedy of humanity which is
that our confidence creatively is at its
highest when we are five or six years
old when we're five or six years old
everything we do gets put on a
refrigerator gets gratification from a
teacher gets adoration from our friends
and then we slowly but surely realize
that there are these people called
critics out there and that a lot of
other people have more or better skills
than we do and our creative confidence
starts to go down and that's when we
stop showing rather than telling we stop
drawing we stop sketching we stop
creating and it's kind of strange that
most of humanity stops doing stuff
because of this lack of creative
confidence that naturally dwindles and
so you look at new technologies that are
emerging um like whether it's mid
Journey or stable diffusions models or
we have Adobe Firefly the ability to
take something that's in your mind's eye
and instantly generate imagery without
any skills required actually starts to
restore some of that creative confidence
later in life you look at the emergence
of a lot of these new web-based content
first tools whether it's Adobe Express
or canva or others that are allowing
people to start from something as
opposed to nothing I mean these are
really really important especially as
the stakeholders of creativity in an
organization go beyond those with just
the skills from design school and so
this is the type of tool that I'm
talking about that should be deployed so
I think this shift is entering in Us in
an era where everyone should be able to
discover content to just leverage share
create variations of um people need to
feel that creative confidence to make
compelling content tell to show rather
than tell and also this this fact that
creativity has always been confined by a
skill set is also going away we used to
have a world where you were either a
graphic designer or a product designer
or an illustrator or a video editor and
increasingly everything is being
displayed on platforms that are mixed
media and so of course we shouldn't
confine ourselves to this kind of
skill-based background if all the
content we're creating is mixed media
anyways you look at big company
marketing budgets and a lot of our
customers have shifted at least if not
more than 50% of their marketing spend
towards social platforms away from a
world where everything was destined for
video or TV or print or whatever to this
new mixed media world we have to have
tools that enable us to feel confident
to create that kind of content so the
the the the shifts that are happening in
this wave number two are very simple
we're going from a world where we always
had had to find someone with skills to
tell our story to a world where we can
tell our own story we're going from a
segment constrained world where everyone
operated within a specific segment in
the creative world to one that is more
imagination constrained and it doesn't
matter whether you come from that
segment or not and we're also going from
a world and I'm really excited about
this shift from a world where creative
creative tools are very exclusive to one
in which creativity is more democratized
now of course at different levels and
with different levels of constraint and
you know that sort and brand consistency
there's a lot of creative controls that
will still be applied by those that are
creative
professionals but the rest of us are
taught how to fish as opposed to always
having to go to these people to do
everything for us and I'm very excited
about
that the third big shift here is the
opportunity of creative exploration
expanding and this is where I address a
common question that we get from our
customers who are creative professionals
and also investors who are like wow
Scott this technology is really powerful
and I love this idea of creative
empowerment but what does that mean for
the future of creative Pros you are
there going to be fewer of them what are
they even going to be doing when you
talk to a creative professional and you
ask them about how they do their
greatest work it often times boils down
to a function of time do they have more
or less time to explore more
possibilities if you go to a branding
agency and you ask them to come up with
a new brand for your company they with
the amount of time they're given you
know they'll they'll have seven
iterations of ideas they'll Whittle it
down to three and they'll present those
two or three at the end to you as the
client and then you choose the one you
like and if they had more time to
explore more surface area of possibility
they would come up with a better
solution and this is the case for every
part of creativity when I spend time
with our customers in Hollywood they
take many variations of different scenes
and then the director sits in rooms with
editors and they look at all the the
different options that the actor
presented or that the director requested
and then they choose the one that works
best and if they had more time they
would shoot more and explore more and
review more and have a better outcome as
a result and so when we think about
creative exploration and the digital bar
of experiences going up right better
experiences for all we just need to
outfit creators with more Cycles they
need more cycles and so this is where
this generative AI technology becomes
really really profound I mean these are
just a few social posts I saw the other
day of the fun things that people are
doing with this superpower you know
there's some fun mimetic ones like
taking these memes or iconic images from
our past and using this technology to
deduce or hallucinate what was around
that that asset you know in in in the
chat world people say that Hallucination
is the bug but in our world the
Hallucination is actually the feature
because the AI needs to be very creative
and support and sugesting all the
variations of possibilities for what was
actually around that you know that
Beatles walk across the across the
boardwalk on that album cover um but
this technology is allowing people to
try many different variations far far
more quickly so we actually just
announced uh the other day a new
capability in Adobe Illustrator which is
probably the most popular product for
illustrators called generative recolor
and this is a I thought a perfect
example for you to illustrate this point
if you're an illust and you're making
you know the the graphic design for one
of these trucks that surround us these
food trucks or any other sort of
campaign a lot of your your time is
spent trying variations of colors that
go well together and that process is
excruciatingly long you come up with the
color palettes you want to try pretty
quickly but then the process of actually
trying them is excruciatingly long so
here you can actually put any prompt in
select the entire illustration with one
click and then instantly change all of
the color palettes across the entire
document within seconds and when we show
this to our customers some of them
actually cry like they literally tear
because they're like oh my goodness like
the amount of my life I would spend just
doing various versions of this for my
client or for my internal client or for
the poster I'm making or
whatever suddenly eliminates and then
they start to say look at all the things
I can now do at that time instead of
just exploring color palettes I can use
that time to make variations of this
illustration you know I can really be
far more creative in the paths that I'm
going to pursue to solve this problem I
was given and you're seeing this in all
kinds of Technologies right I don't mean
to just talk about Adobes I mean there's
this great product out there Runway
that's also allowing people to just use
text to video capabilities to explore
all different types of possibility and
imagine making an ad and being able to
quick with quick iterations make various
versions of that ad and just test them
in Rapid time this has never been
possible before and so what's going to
end up happening is it's going to make
experiences better and I believe that
actually when you get more Ingenuity per
person that you employ the people on
your creative team when you get more
possibility from each of them you're
going to actually want to hire more of
them look no further than Engineers
Engineers have gotten more productive
every year for probably the last two
decades and yet companies want to hire
more of them why because as natural
beings and natural entities and
capitalism we want to build more
products we want to solve more customer
problems we want to build more features
and so if we get more per person we end
up actually wanting more people and I
think that's my bet as well for the
creative space so the shift of this big
wave
here um is that the limited time for
discovery that every creative person
I've ever met feels constrained by Will
suddenly yield 100x more cycles of
Discovery and that's going to be really
exciting for them and for the rest of us
that get to witness what they create and
then this limited surface area of
exploration that you had to look through
to find the solution to a problem you
were trying to solve you're going to
vastly expand the surface area you're
able to cover in a given amount of time
and that 100x possibilities is going to
ultimately yield better discoveries
better realizations better Solutions no
doubt about that so when I think about
the box of creativity and I'll be ironic
and put creativity in a box for a moment
um it was always constrained it was
constrained by the skills you needed to
get into that box right you may have
felt daunted by Photoshop or illustrator
or after effects you felt you couldn't
make that animation to show how your
product worked right you never felt like
you could get into that box you always
had to hire someone to do it for you and
if you are in that box you were
constrained by time to find better
Solutions you could never break through
the ceiling cuz the ceiling was just the
number of Cycles you had to discover
stuff and you could just never break
through that damn ceiling so the good
news about this technology is that that
it's doing two things right it is
lowering the bar for the minimum skills
required to get into this box which is a
lot of new people coming into the funnel
right for any creative product and it's
also raising the ceiling right of what's
possible within the given time that you
actually have and this is I think a
great thing for the creative industry so
100x more possibilities through that
surface area and 100x more participants
by people having access by not needing
the skills to get involved and having
more creative confidence to take a shot
right so what does this yield well 100x
more possibilities and 100x more impact
you know powered by this Ai and data
that's being captured on all of these
interactions we have with our digital
experiences every day this is yielding
the next wave I want to make a case for
you for which is this world of far more
engaging and personalized digital
experiences that we could ever imagine
this to me is the fourth wave that's
going to change everything especially
for your
products we are going to be in a world
where we're going to expect every
digital experience to know each of us
we're going to expect things to be
tailor made for us right when we go
shopping at an e-commerce website we're
going to expect it to know our shoe size
to know our gender to know what things
we liked and didn't like in the future
we're going to expect that entity that
we're shopping with to have a
conversation with our personal agent and
have a sort of a pre-brief
in milliseconds of what our experience
should be on this website so that when
we go we're welcomed by name and we know
why we were welcomed by name it's not
creepy adte it's actually
personalization at scale on our own
terms as consumers I believe our
documents are going to want to talk to
us as opposed to us reading through and
trying to find things the documents will
say what do you want to know about me
and you'll just have a conversation um
these applications documents experiences
are going going to meet us where we are
as opposed to us always having to meet
these apps where they are which
transforms the whole nature of
onboarding and personalized experiences
for every digital product that is out
there the data that we all have right
that we selectively share or our agents
choose to share on our behalf is the
fuel that will allow us to be known and
this has always been one of my cardinal
cardinal convictions of Technology both
as an angel investor as a founder of
behance which is the company I founded
many years ago and now in my role at
Adobe I believe that all of us as humans
long to go back to the way things once
were but with more scale and efficiency
that notion of walking around a small
town and being welcomed by the butcher
who knows your favorite cut or you know
having going into an apparel store where
they know and they remember what you
bought before and they know your kids'
names and they suggest a gift for a
friend of yours this small town life
that we lost in the Industrial
Revolution might be something that our
ancestral kind of brain somewhat craves
especially in this world where every
Brand's about to flood the Zone with
content we're going to be having so many
things thrown at us at all times we're
going to want to be known and I think
that that's one of the things that all
brands and companies and digital
experiences need to think about some
companies are already thinking about it
this is an example of carvana they did
an experiment where they made 1.5
million in hyper-personalized videos for
their customers based on the actual car
that the customer purchased the color of
the car that they purchased it in and
the hometown that they purchased it at
and also their native language and so
everyone got this video about their car
purchase experience from carvana that
felt like it was tailor made for them
they felt known it was an amazing moment
of hospitality in a very unexpected
Place buying a car from carvana you
would never respect that I think this is
a signal of the types of things to come
at scale and so the big seismic shift in
this fourth wave that I just described
is that these generalized experiences
from the masses are going to become
personalized experiences for each of us
that you always searching for something
or trying to D doce something and read
something and figure something out will
become a world where you ask and get
suggestions on things you didn't even
know you needed to know you learning an
application and how it works becomes an
app learning you and figuring out how
you work and what your skill level is
and what you're trying to accomplish and
then this data driven world where
everyone's obsessed with finding data
and then using that data to Market
whatever is become more AI driven and
what I mean by that is that we're going
to not even understand fully how the
data that we have on our own customers
can be used to provide that level of
hospitality I just described but the AI
will and the AI will also hopefully have
a relationship with that person's agent
that that can help us understand their
preferences on their own terms imagine
your agent telling a brand new company
that you're actually going to on on
purpose and for that one hour that
company can know a lot about you and
give you a hyper personalized experience
and then as soon as that hour is up
you're a stranger again because you want
to be these are the types of things that
I believe will be possible with this
fourth wave of technology that is
rapidly rapidly coming at us the fifth
wave the fifth and last wave here is
that I believe as humans we are all
going to Crave story and craft and
meaning more than ever before I mean if
you think about the reason we ever
bought art in the first place was not
because of the value of the raw ink on
the canvas right it was the story that
someone told the gallery plays an
important role in selling art because we
learn that artist background and their
childhood and where they went to school
and other collectors and all these data
points become a story for us that
creates
scarcity and it emphasizes the quity of
The Craft and it enables us to Value it
for something right more than what it
actually the raw goods are worth there
was a great experiment that was done
recently by my friend Casey neistat in
New York he's a well-known YouTube
videographer um and he goes out and does
these iconic videos often times of
things in New York City and he um he uh
he went to chat GTP and he said what is
a video tour of New York City that Casey
neistat would do and of course output an
entire script of exactly what he would
do and so he decided to film an episode
where he followed the script and every
scene Direction and every line word for
word for word and you watch this video
uh it's a little strange and a little
dull um at times he's like hey guys you
know I'm at the most inspiring
motivational place where I love to sit
and have a coffee in New York City and
then like you see what the video what
he's looking at and it's like an
escalator just going
down and uh so anyways that's basically
what the video is like at the end he
turns to the viewer with a little post
roll and he says listen that is the
worst video I ever made in my life and
the reason is despite it using the
latest technology is that it had no soul
you know it had no soul and I thought
about this quite a bit because a lot of
these models are trained to be in
intuitive they're trained on the average
of what we used to what we do the things
we watch the things we think it's
trained on the stuff that's been done by
default obviously through 2001 and some
2021 in some
cases and yet the things that actually
jar us and feel like they have soul are
somewhat counterintuitive they're things
that catch our eye that we didn't expect
they're mistakes of the eye there's all
these elements of creativity that are
ultimately what move us right and so I
think what Casey net was saying is that
and was reminding us is that the stuff
that continues to be really effective is
the stuff that has this emotion that
Taps into some of these things that are
counterintuitive that are deeply
personal the random number generator in
our brain is far more interesting than
the random number generator you know
applied to some algorithm and some
training data set so what's happening
here in this fifth wave what are the
shifts that matter well every brand is
going to flood the Zone with content
right right now it's happening with all
these Chachi
marketing machines that are out there
now SEO right is going to be something
that's completely used and abused we're
going to get tons of content thrown at
us and immersive experiences and future
devices that we wear on our eyes and
everything else as we're flooding as
we're being flooded our expectations for
experiences goes up the bar goes up and
things that move us are going to be the
things that capture our attention
instead of seeking scale and efficiency
in everything we do I think we're
actually going to se seek more mean
meaning and scarcity in what we do and
just take a trip to Japan and walk
around Tokyo and see the things that
catch your eye the small little you know
bars with seven seats or the micro you
know uh restaurants with five seats I
mean these are why people love going
there so much often times is the meaning
and scarcity of the experiences that are
designed not to scale that makes that
culture so unique and interesting maybe
that will permeate other cultures maybe
that will be something We crave even
more even in America where everything's
about scale and more and more and then
being engaged by content increasingly we
might become engaged more by meaning and
that's really like in the deepest part
of of uh my soul you know creativity is
that is effective is ultimately the
creativity that moves us and that's
going to keep in my mind this industry
alive thank
you